File Source: GRETIL


Edition: composite, based on S. Lévi 1925, Paris; Hakuju Ui 1953, Tokyo; and Silk 2018


Extent: complete


Input by: Tyler Neill


Structural Notes: 

This text consists of Vasubandhu's Viṃśatikā as embedded in his prose autocommentary.

After inspecting available editions, it was decided that the text of Silk was closest to being able to meet the needs of the present project, but not without substantial modification. Therefore, Silk was taken as a basis, and then there were filled in gaps in the Sanskrit left by that edition (e.g. the first folios), and orthography and punctuation were reformed according to my own understanding. Page numbers also follow Silk, as do paragraph breaks (especially for prose, but also for verse material, which could not easily be affiliated with preceding or following prose material) and their grouping into sections (1–22).

Document candidate identifiers were generated automatically based on page numbers and paragraph breaks, with commas and lowercase Roman numerals indicating the number of the “paragraph” (sometimes just indented metrical material) among all those starting on a given page. Document groups were based on section labels (1–22).


Other Important Notes: 

1) For the first section, which must be reconstructed from Tibetan and Chinese translations and from the separately transmitted kārikā-only Sanskrit manuscript, and on which Silk 2018 (after comparing Lévi 1925 and Nasu Jisshū 1953) takes no clear overall position (instead just translating from Tibetan), I follow the reconstruction of Ui 1953 (available on GRETIL, digitized by Takamichi Fukita) except where Silk 2018 suddenly becomes available. For the Ui 1953 material, I correct several typographical and metrical errors as necessary. Page numbering for this part follows neither Silk 2018 nor Ui 1953 but rather Levi 1925 (as in the GRETIL text) for convenience. Paragraph breaks are a combination of Ui 1953 and Silk 2018, as available.


(numerous other details recorded elsewhere)